#  DESIGN

This app started with a UI in storyboard, there are several UI objects added to the scene under a stack view. Stack view is used in order to allow dynamic scaling to any of the various screen sizes found on iOS devices, ranging from an iPhone 5s to an iPad Pro. There is a title label on top of two user-interactable text fields with a non user-interactable text box at the bottom. I wanted to keep the UI simple, clean, and classy with everything fitting on one simple page that looks great on any device.

The UI then links to code through ViewController.swift. I found a massive open source .json dictionary file online, (33 MB) and one of the primary challenges of the project was dealing with the behemoth of data in Xcode. I created a Swift struct to match the aspects of the .json file that were revleant to my app. All objects of the struct are optional, as the dictionary can provide nil values for any of these properties. Moving on from top to bottom in ViewController.swift, I have the DataManager class which takes my local .json file and brings it into the my program for parsing.

Now the data has been read in. The viewDidLoad( ) function is called after the UI is first loaded, (when the app is launched) and in this function I decode the .json file, parsing it into my Swift struct. Parsing the .json file is very resource intensive, but by doing it on the inital UI load, this process only has to be done once, as long as the app is kept in memory, this process is not repeated. This means that there is a load time on launch, but query is instant after that.

Next I have the textFieldDidEndEditing function which is called when the user hits "search" the enter key on the keypad. I lowercase the user's input and dispatch a new asynchronous thread to sleep until the words struct is loaded from the .json. From here if the text field used was for latin, I iterate over the words struct to find the appropriate entry and give the formatted entry to the textbox beneath the search bars. If the text field used was the English one, then I do a similar process to iterate over the words struct and find a matching entry.

I used the .json file I did because it was the only thing I could find with enough data to thoroughly cover English and Latin. I found other smaller files in XML and other formats, but this file works well, albeit a bit of a loading time at launch. I like keeping the results on the same page instead of opening a new page because it allows for less clicks when using the app, and modern devices have enough screen real estate to fully show results alongside the search functionality. I'm really happy with my app, and I hope that you like it too.

